.TH libslapt 3
.SH NAME
libslapt \- slapt-get library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#define _GNU_SOURCE
#include <slapt.h>

/* initialize slapt_rc_config */
slapt_rc_config *slapt_init_config(void);
/* parse config file for sources, excludes, and working_dir*/
slapt_rc_config *config = slapt_read_rc_config("/etc/slapt-get/slapt-getrc");
/* get a list of installed packages */
slapt_pkg_list_t *installed = slapt_get_installed_pkgs();
/* parse the package data, normally using config->working_dir */
FILE *data_f = fopen("/var/slapt-get/package_data","r");
slapt_pkg_list_t *available = slapt_parse_packages_txt(data_f);

/* search for a package in a list via regex */
slapt_pkg_list_t *results = slapt_search_pkg_list(installed,"[0-9]frg");
slapt_free_pkg_list(results);

/* look for a specific package */
slapt_pkg_info_t *pkg = slapt_get_exact_pkg(available,
                                            "slapt-get",
                                            "0.9.10c-i386-1");
if (!slapt_is_excluded(config,pkg)) {
  const char *error = slapt_download_pkg(config,pkg);

  if (error == NULL) {
    if (slapt_install_pkg(config,pkg) != 0) {
      fprintf(stderr,"error installing %s\\n"pkg->name);
    }
    if (slapt_upgrade_pkg(config,pkg) != 0) {
      fprintf(stderr,"error upgrading %s\\n"pkg->name);
    }
    if (slapt_remove_pkg(config,pkg) != 0) {
      fprintf(stderr,"error removing %s\\n"pkg->name);
    }
  }
}
slapt_free_pkg(pkg);

if (slapt_cmp_pkgs(pkg_a,pkg_b) = 0) {
  fprintf(stderr,"%s is equal to %s\\n",pkg_a->version,pkg_b->version);
} elsif (slapt_cmp_pkgs(pkg_a,pkg_b) < 0) {
  fprintf(stderr,"%s is less than %s\\n",pkg_a->version,pkg_b->version);
} elsif (slapt_cmp_pkgs(pkg_a,pkg_b) > 0) {
  fprintf(stderr,"%s is greater than %s\\n",pkg_a->version,pkg_b->version);
}

slapt_free_pkg_list(available);
slapt_free_pkg_list(installed);
slapt_free_rc_config(config);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This is a short overview on how to use libslapt with your C programs.  
.IP \fBCONFIGURATION\fP
.TP
slapt-get stores the configuration information in a \fIslapt_rc_config\fP object.  The configuration is parsed from the \fIslapt-getrc\fP which includes \fISOURCE\fP, \fIEXCLUDE\fP, and \fIWORKINGDIR\fP directives.  Various runtime configuration options are also stored within the \fIslapt_rc_config\fP object. 

.nf
  typedef struct {
    char working_dir[WORKINGDIR_TOKEN_LEN];
    slapt_source_list_t *sources;
    slapt_list_t *exclude_list;
    int (*progress_cb) (void *,double,double,double,double);
    SLAPT_BOOL_T download_only;
    SLAPT_BOOL_T dist_upgrade;
    SLAPT_BOOL_T simulate;
    SLAPT_BOOL_T no_prompt;
    SLAPT_BOOL_T re_install;
    SLAPT_BOOL_T ignore_excludes;
    SLAPT_BOOL_T no_md5_check;
    SLAPT_BOOL_T ignore_dep;
    SLAPT_BOOL_T disable_dep_check;
    SLAPT_BOOL_T print_uris;
    SLAPT_BOOL_T dl_stats;
    SLAPT_BOOL_T remove_obsolete;
    SLAPT_BOOL_T no_upgrade;
    unsigned int retry;
  } slapt_rc_config;
.fi

.TP
The \fIslapt_rc_config\fP is created with the \fIslapt_read_rc_config\fP() function by passing in the file location of the configuration to parse, or by calling \fIslapt_init_config\fP() to return an empty, initialized \fIslapt_rc_config\fP.
.sp
.B "slapt_rc_config *slapt_read_rc_config(const char *file_name);"
.sp
.B "slapt_rc_config *slapt_init_config(void);"
.sp
.TP
and is freed by a call to the \fIslapt_free_rc_config\fP() function.
.sp
.B "void slapt_free_rc_config(slapt_rc_config *global_config);"
.sp
.TP
The slapt-getrc configuration can be written back out with \fIslapt_write_rc_config\fP.
.sp
.B "int slapt_write_rc_config(const slapt_rc_config *global_config, const char *location);"
.sp
.TP
The progress callback is a function that is called while data is being downloaded.  It is in the format of \fBint slapt_progress_callback(void *clientp, double dltotal, double dlnow, double ultotal, double ulnow);\fP
.sp
.TP
Package sources are represented by the \fIslapt_source_t\fP type.  They are created, destroyed, and interacted with using the following functions:
.sp
.nf
  typedef struct {
    char *url;
    SLAPT_PRIORITY_T priority;
    SLAPT_BOOL_T disabled;
  } slapt_source_t;
.sp
.B slapt_source_t *slapt_init_source(const char *s);
.B void slapt_free_source(slapt_source_t *src);
.fi
.sp
.TP
The \fIslapt_source_list_t\fP stores the package sources.  Sources can be added and removed with \fIslapt_add_source\fP() and \fIslapt_remove_source\fP().  Typically, \fIslapt_rc_config->sources\fP is passed as the first argument, but it could be any pointer to a \fIslapt_source_list_t\fP that is created by \fIslapt_init_source_list\fP().
.sp
.nf
  typedef struct {
    slapt_source_t **src;
    unsigned int count;
  } slapt_source_list_t;
.sp
.B "slapt_source_list_t *slapt_init_source_list(void);"
.B "void slapt_add_source(slapt_source_list_t *list, slapt_source_t *s);"
.B "void slapt_remove_source (slapt_source_list_t *list, const char *s);"
.B "void slapt_free_source_list(slapt_source_list_t *list);"
.fi
.sp
.TP
In order to initialize the slapt_rc_config->working_dir directory, \fIslapt_working_dir_init\fP() must be called.  It is a fatal error to call \fIslapt_working_dir_init\fP() with a directory that the current process does not have privileges to read, write, and execute.
.sp
.B "void slapt_working_dir_init(const slapt_rc_config *global_config);"
.sp
.IP \fBPACKAGES\fP
.TP
slapt-get stores packages within \fIslapt_pkg_info_t\fP objects.
.sp
.nf
  typedef struct {
    char md5[SLAPT_MD5_STR_LEN];
    char *name;
    char *version;
    char *mirror;
    char *location;
    char *description;
    char *required;
    char *conflicts;
    char *suggests;
    char *file_ext;
    unsigned int size_c;
    unsigned int size_u;
    unsigned int priority;
    SLAPT_BOOL_T installed;
  } slapt_pkg_info_t;
.fi
.sp
.TP
The \fIslapt_pkg_info_t\fP object is created and freed with \fIslapt_init_pkg\fP() and \fIslapt_free_pkg\fP().  A \fIslapt_pkg_info_t\fP can also be copied with \fIslapt_copy_pkg\fP().
.sp
.nf
.B "__inline slapt_pkg_info_t *slapt_init_pkg(void);"
.B "void slapt_free_pkg(slapt_pkg_info_t *pkg);"
.B "slapt_pkg_info_t *slapt_copy_pkg(slapt_pkg_info_t *dst,"
.B "                                 slapt_pkg_info_t *src);"
.fi
.sp
.TP
Package lists are useful for grouping packages from the existing installed packages, packages available from external sources, a list of dependencies, and more.  Package lists are stored within a \fIslapt_pkg_list_t\fP.
.sp
.nf
  typedef struct {
    slapt_pkg_info_t **pkgs;
    unsigned int pkg_count;
    SLAPT_BOOL_T free_pkgs;
    SLAPT_BOOL_T ordered;
  } slapt_pkg_list_t;
.fi
.sp
.TP
If \fIfree_pkgs\fP is set to TRUE, \fIslapt_free_pkg_list\fP will call \fIslapt_free_pkg\fP() for each \fIslapt_pkg_info_t\fP within the list.  Leave this to the default of FALSE if the list is populated with pointers to \fIslapt_pkg_info_t\fP objects that are freed elsewhere.
.sp
.TP
If \fIordered\fP is is set to TRUE, the list has been sorted by \fIqsort\fP().
.sp
.TP
\fIslapt_pkg_info_t\fP objects are created by \fIslapt_init_pkg_list\fP() and freed by \fIslapt_free_pkg_list\fP().  \fIslapt_add_pkg_to_pkg_list\fP() is used to add a package to a list.
.sp
.nf
.B "slapt_pkg_list_t *slapt_init_pkg_list(void);"
.B "void slapt_free_pkg_list(slapt_pkg_list_t *);"
.B "void slapt_add_pkg_to_pkg_list(slapt_pkg_list_t *list, slapt_pkg_info_t *pkg);"
.fi
.sp
.TP
Package lists can be parsed from PACKAGES.TXT or similar formated files (such as the working_dir/package_data file used by slapt-get) with \fIslapt_parse_packages_txt\fP().  A package list of the currently installed packages is returned by \fIslapt_get_installed_pkgs\fP().  \fIslapt_get_available_pkgs\fP() is a frontend to \fIslapt_parse_packages_txt\fP() looking for a package_data file in the current directory.  All three of the following set \fIfree_pkgs\fP to TRUE.
.sp
.nf
.B "slapt_pkg_list_t *slapt_parse_packages_txt(FILE *);"
.B "slapt_pkg_list_t *slapt_get_available_pkgs(void);"
.B "slapt_pkg_list_t *slapt_get_installed_pkgs(void);"
.fi
.sp
.TP
Finding a specific package in a package list is done through one of the following functions.  All return \fIslapt_pkg_info_t\fP, or NULL on error, except for \fIslapt_search_pkg_list\fP() which returns a list of packages as \fIslapt_pkg_list_t\fP.
.sp
.nf
.B "slapt_pkg_info_t *slapt_get_newest_pkg(slapt_pkg_list_t *,"
.B "                                       const char *);"
.B "slapt_pkg_info_t *slapt_get_exact_pkg(slapt_pkg_list_t *list,"
.B "                                      const char *name,"
.B "                                      const char *version);"
.B "slapt_pkg_info_t *slapt_get_pkg_by_details(slapt_pkg_list_t *list,"
.B "                                           const char *name,"
.B "                                           const char *version,"
.B "                                           const char *location);"
.B "slapt_pkg_list_t *slapt_search_pkg_list(slapt_pkg_list_t *list,"
.B "                                             const char *pattern);"
.fi
.sp
.TP
Passing a package to \fIinstallpkg\fP, \fIupgradepkg\fP, and \fIremovepkg\fP is done through the following functions.  All return 0 upon success, or non-zero on error.
.sp
.nf
.B "int slapt_install_pkg(const slapt_rc_config *,slapt_pkg_info_t *);"
.B "int slapt_upgrade_pkg(const slapt_rc_config *global_config,"
.B "                      slapt_pkg_info_t *pkg);"
.B "int slapt_remove_pkg(const slapt_rc_config *,slapt_pkg_info_t *);"
.fi
.sp
.TP
Comparing package versions is done with the \fIslapt_cmp_pkgs\fP functions.  It calls \fIslapt_cmp_pkg_versions\fP() which returns just like strcmp, greater than 0 if a is greater than b, less than 0 if a is less than b, or 0 if a and b are equal.
.sp
.nf
.B "int slapt_cmp_pkg_versions(const char *a, const char *b);"
.B "int slapt_cmp_pkgs(slapt_pkg_info_t *a, slapt_pkg_info_t *b);"
.fi
.sp
.TP
The following functions deal with determining package dependencies and conflicts and returning them within a package list.  Some require the use of a \fIslapt_pkg_err_list_t\fP of \fIslapt_pkg_err_t\fP objects for reporting errors on which packages failed or were missing.  \fIslapt_search_pkg_err_list\fP() returns 0 if the package and error string combination does not already exist in the \fIslapt_pkg_err_list_t\fP, or 1 if found.
.sp
.nf
  typedef struct {
    char *pkg;
    char *error;
  } slapt_pkg_err_t;
.sp
  typedef struct {
    slapt_pkg_err_t **errs;
    unsigned int err_count;
  } slapt_pkg_err_list_t;
.sp
.B "slapt_pkg_err_list_t *slapt_init_pkg_err_list(void);"
.B "void slapt_add_pkg_err_to_list(slapt_pkg_err_list_t *l,"
.B "                               const char *pkg,const char *err);"
.B "int slapt_search_pkg_err_list(slapt_pkg_err_list_t *l, const char *pkg,"
.B "                              const char *err);"
.B "void slapt_free_pkg_err_list(slapt_pkg_err_list_t *l);"
.sp
.fi
.TP
\fIslapt_get_pkg_dependencies\fP() fills a \fIslapt_pkg_list_t\fP of dependencies for the specified package.  These dependencies are pulled from the available package list and the installed package lists.  Missing and conflict errors are placed in \fIslapt_pkg_err_list_t\fP.  \fIdeps\fP, \fIconflict_err\fP, and \fImissing_err\fP are initialized if NULL.  \fIslapt_get_pkg_dependencies\fP() returns 0 on success, or -1 on error.
.sp
.nf
.B "int slapt_get_pkg_dependencies(const slapt_rc_config *global_config,
.B "                               slapt_pkg_list_t *avail_pkgs,
.B "                               slapt_pkg_list_t *installed_pkgs,
.B "                               slapt_pkg_info_t *pkg,
.B "                               slapt_pkg_list_t *deps,
.B "                               slapt_pkg_err_list_t *conflict_err,
.B "                               slapt_pkg_err_list_t *missing_err);"
.sp
.fi
.TP
\fIslapt_get_pkg_conflicts\fP() returns a \fIslapt_pkg_list_t\fP of packages that conflict with the specified package.
.sp
.nf
.B "slapt_pkg_list_t *"
.B "slapt_get_pkg_conflicts(slapt_pkg_list_t *avail_pkgs,
.B "                        slapt_pkg_list_t *installed_pkgs,
.B "                        slapt_pkg_info_t *pkg);"
.sp
.fi
.TP
\fIslapt_is_required_by\fP() returns a \fIslapt_pkg_list_t\fP of packages that require the package specified.
.sp
.nf
.B "slapt_pkg_list_t *"
.B "slapt_is_required_by(const slapt_rc_config *global_config,
.B "                     slapt_pkg_list_t *avail,
.B "                     slapt_pkg_list_t *installed_pkgs,
.B "                     slapt_pkg_list_t *pkgs_to_install,
.B "                     slapt_pkg_list_t *pkgs_to_remove,
.B "                     slapt_pkg_info_t *pkg);"
.sp
.fi
.TP
\fIslapt_get_obsolete_pkgs\fP() returns a \fIslapt_pkg_list_t\fP of packages that are no longer available from the current package sources.
.sp
.nf
.B "slapt_pkg_list_t *"
.B "  slapt_get_obsolete_pkgs ( const slapt_rc_config *global_config,"
.B "                            slapt_pkg_list_t *avail_pkgs,"
.B "                            slapt_pkg_list_t *installed_pkgs);"
.B "
.sp
.fi
.TP
\fIslapt_is_excluded\fP() returns 1 if package is present in the exclude list, 0 if not.
.sp
.nf
.B "int slapt_is_excluded(const slapt_rc_config *,slapt_pkg_info_t *);"
.fi
.sp
.TP
\fIslapt_get_pkg_changelog\fP() returns the package changelog entry, if any.  Otherwise returns NULL.  Assumes already chdir'd to the working directory.
.sp
.nf
.B "char *slapt_get_pkg_changelog(const slapt_pkg_info_t *pkg);"
.fi
.sp
.TP
\fIslapt_get_pkg_filelist\fP() returns a string representing all of the files installed by the package.  This list is read from the package log file.  
.sp
.nf
.B "char *slapt_get_pkg_filelist(const slapt_pkg_info_t *pkg);"
.fi
.sp
.TP
\fIslapt_stringify_pkg\fP() returns a string representation of the package.
.sp
.nf
.B "char *slapt_stringify_pkg(const slapt_pkg_info_t *pkg);"
.fi
.sp
.TP
\fIslapt_gen_package_log_dir_name\fP() returns a string location of the package log directory, accounting for the value of the ROOT environment variable, if set.  
.sp
.nf
.B "char *slapt_gen_package_log_dir_name(void);"
.fi
.sp
.TP
The \fIworking_dir\fP, defined within the \fIslapt_rc_config\fP object, caches the downloaded packages.  At various times it becomes necessary to purge the package cache.  \fIslapt_clean_pkg_dir\fP() unlinks all packages within the specified directory location.  \fIslapt_purge_old_cached_pkgs\fP() unlinks only packages that are not present in the current sources and thus are no longer downloadable.
.sp
.nf
.B "void slapt_clean_pkg_dir(const char *dir_name);"
.B "void slapt_purge_old_cached_pkgs(const slapt_rc_config *global_config,"
.B "                                 const char *dir_name,"
.B "                                 slapt_pkg_list_t *avail_pkgs);"
.fi
.sp
.TP
The \fIslapt_clean_description\fP() function is used to clean the package name from the package description.  This modifies the string in place.  It is best to copy the \fIpkg->description\fP to a new string prior to calling \fIslapt_clean_description\fP().
.sp
.nf
.B void slapt_clean_description (char *description, const char *name);
.fi
.sp
.IP \fBDOWNLOADING\fP
.TP
Downloading packages and the package data from various sources is handled with the following functions.  Functions with integer return types return non-zero on error.  \fIslapt_update_pkg_cache\fP() and \fIslapt_get_available_pkgs\fP() assume to be chdir'd to the working directory.
.sp
.nf
.B "int slapt_download_data(FILE *fh, const char *url, size_t bytes, long *filetime,"
.B "                  const slapt_rc_config *global_config);"
.B "int slapt_update_pkg_cache(const slapt_rc_config *global_config);"
.B "const char *slapt_download_pkg(const slapt_rc_config *global_config,"
.B "                       slapt_pkg_info_t *pkg);"
.B "slapt_code_t slapt_verify_downloaded_pkg(const slapt_rc_config *global_config,"
.B "                                slapt_pkg_info_t *pkg);"
.sp
.B "const char *slapt_get_mirror_data_from_source(FILE *fh,"
.B "                                      const slapt_rc_config *global_config,"
.B "                                      const char *base_url,"
.B "                                      const char *filename);"
.B "char *slapt_head_request(const char *url);"
.B "char *slapt_head_mirror_data(const char *wurl,const char *file);"
.B "void slapt_clear_head_cache(const char *cache_filename);"
.B "void slapt_write_head_cache(const char *cache, const char *cache_filename);"
.B "char *slapt_read_head_cache(const char *cache_filename);"
.fi
.sp
.TP
The following functions download the PACKAGES.TXT, the patches/PACKAGES.TXT, CHECKSUMS.md5, and ChangeLog.txt.  Each sets the compressed option if a compressed version was available and retrieved.
.sp
.nf
.B "slapt_pkg_list_t *"
.B "slapt_get_pkg_source_packages (const slapt_rc_config *global_config,"
.B "                               const char *url, unsigned int *compressed);"
.B "slapt_pkg_list_t *"
.B "slapt_get_pkg_source_patches (const slapt_rc_config *global_config,"
.B "                              const char *url, unsigned int *compressed);"
.B "FILE *slapt_get_pkg_source_checksums (const slapt_rc_config *global_config,"
.B "                                      const char *url, unsigned int *compressed);"
.B "int slapt_get_pkg_source_changelog (const slapt_rc_config *global_config,"
.B "                                      const char *url, unsigned int *compressed);"
.fi
.sp
.TP
Progress callbacks make use of \fIstruct slapt_progress_data\fP.
.sp
.nf
  struct slapt_progress_data
  {
    size_t bytes;
    time_t start;
  };
.sp
.B "struct slapt_progress_data *slapt_init_progress_data(void);"
.B "void slapt_free_progress_data(struct slapt_progress_data *d);"
.sp
.IP \fBTRANSACTIONS\fP
.TP
Adding, removing, and upgrading packages can be wrapped in a \fIslapt_transaction_t\fP object.  This structure will make sure that all packages are worked on in the specific order, downloaded, and handed off to the appropriate pkgtools command via the \fIslapt_handle_transaction\fP() function.
.sp
.nf
  enum slapt_action {
    USAGE = 0, UPDATE, INSTALL, REMOVE, SHOW, SEARCH, UPGRADE,
    LIST, INSTALLED, CLEAN, SHOWVERSION, AUTOCLEAN, AVAILABLE
  };
.sp
  typedef struct {
    union { slapt_pkg_info_t *i; slapt_pkg_upgrade_t *u; } pkg;
    unsigned int type; /* this is enum slapt_action */
  } slapt_queue_i;
.sp
  typedef struct {
    slapt_queue_i **pkgs;
    unsigned int count;
  } slapt_queue_t;
.sp
  typedef struct {
    slapt_pkg_info_t *installed;
    slapt_pkg_info_t *upgrade;
    SLAPT_BOOL_T reinstall;
  } slapt_pkg_upgrade_t;
.sp
  typedef struct {
    slapt_pkg_upgrade_t **pkgs;
    unsigned int pkg_count;
    unsigned int reinstall_count;
  } slapt_pkg_upgrade_list_t;
.sp
  typedef struct {
    slapt_pkg_list_t *install_pkgs;
    slapt_pkg_upgrade_list_t *upgrade_pkgs;
    slapt_pkg_list_t *remove_pkgs;
    slapt_pkg_list_t *exclude_pkgs;
    slapt_list_t *suggests;
    slapt_pkg_err_list_t *conflict_err;
    slapt_pkg_err_list_t *missing_err;
    slapt_queue_t *queue;
  } slapt_transaction_t;
.sp
.B "slapt_transaction_t *slapt_init_transaction(void);"
.B "void slapt_free_transaction(slapt_transaction_t *);"
.B "int slapt_handle_transaction(const slapt_rc_config *,slapt_transaction_t *);"
.sp
.B "void slapt_add_install_to_transaction(slapt_transaction_t *,"
.B "                                      slapt_pkg_info_t *pkg);"
.sp
.B "void slapt_add_remove_to_transaction(slapt_transaction_t *,"
.B "                                     slapt_pkg_info_t *pkg);"
.sp
.B "void slapt_add_upgrade_to_transaction(slapt_transaction_t *,"
.B "                                      slapt_pkg_info_t *installed_pkg,"
.B "                                      slapt_pkg_info_t *upgrade_pkg);"
.sp
.B "void slapt_add_reinstall_to_transaction(slapt_transaction_t *,"
.B "                                      slapt_pkg_info_t *installed_pkg,"
.B "                                      slapt_pkg_info_t *upgrade_pkg);"
.sp
.B "void slapt_add_exclude_to_transaction(slapt_transaction_t *,"
.B "                                      slapt_pkg_info_t *pkg);"
.sp
.B "slapt_transaction_t *slapt_remove_from_transaction(slapt_transaction_t *tran,"
.B "                                                   slapt_pkg_info_t *pkg);"
.sp
.B "int slapt_search_transaction(slapt_transaction_t *,char *pkg_name);"
.B "int slapt_search_transaction_by_pkg(slapt_transaction_t *tran,"
.B "                                    slapt_pkg_info_t *pkg);"
.sp
.B "int slapt_search_upgrade_transaction(slapt_transaction_t *tran,"
.B "                                     slapt_pkg_info_t *pkg);"
.sp
.B "int slapt_add_deps_to_trans(const slapt_rc_config *global_config,"
.B "                            slapt_transaction_t *tran,"
.B "                            slapt_pkg_list_t *avail_pkgs,"
.B "                            slapt_pkg_list_t *installed_pkgs,"
.B "                            slapt_pkg_info_t *pkg);"
.sp
.B "slapt_pkg_info_t *slapt_is_conflicted(slapt_transaction_t *tran,"
.B "                                      slapt_pkg_list_t *avail_pkgs,"
.B "                                      slapt_pkg_list_t *installed_pkgs,"
.B "                                      slapt_pkg_info_t *pkg);"
.sp
.B "void slapt_generate_suggestions(slapt_transaction_t *tran);"
.fi
.sp
.IP \fBGPG\fP
.TP
Functionality for GPG verification of package sources.
.sp
.TP
Retrieve the signature file for CHECKSUMS.md5 (or the signature for CHECKSUMS.md5.gz).  Sets compressed depending on which was found.
.nf
.B "FILE *slapt_get_pkg_source_checksums_signature (const slapt_rc_config *global_config,"
.B "                                                const char *url,"
.B "                                                unsigned int *compressed);"
.fi
.sp
.TP
Retrieve the GPG-KEY file from the package source, if available.  Returns NULL if not found.
.nf
.B "FILE *slapt_get_pkg_source_gpg_key(const slapt_rc_config *global_config,"
.B "                                   const char *url,"
.B "                                   unsigned int *compressed);"
.fi
.sp
.TP
Add the GPG-Key to the local keyring. Returns one of the following: SLAPT_GPG_KEY_IMPORTED, SLAPT_GPG_KEY_NOT_IMPORTED, or SLAPT_GPG_KEY_UNCHANGED.
.nf
.B "slapt_code_t slapt_add_pkg_source_gpg_key (FILE *key);"
.fi
.sp
.TP
Verify the signature is valid for the compressed or uncompressed checksum.  Returns one of the following: SLAPT_CHECKSUMS_VERIFIED, SLAPT_CHECKSUMS_MISSING_KEY, or SLAPT_CHECKSUMS_NOT_VERIFIED.
.nf
.B "slapt_code_t slapt_gpg_verify_checksums(FILE *checksums, FILE *signature);"
.sp
.fi
.IP \fBMISCELLANEOUS\fP
.TP
Miscellaneous functionality within libslapt.
.sp
.nf
  typedef struct {
    regmatch_t pmatch[SLAPT_MAX_REGEX_PARTS];
    regex_t regex;
    size_t nmatch;
    int reg_return;
  } slapt_regex_t;
.sp
.B "FILE *slapt_open_file(const char *file_name,const char *mode);"
.B "slapt_regex_t *slapt_init_regex(const char *regex_string);"
.B "void slapt_execute_regex(slapt_regex_t *regex_t,const char *string);"
.B "void slapt_free_regex(slapt_regex_t *regex_t);"
.B "void slapt_create_dir_structure(const char *dir_name);"
.B "void slapt_gen_md5_sum_of_file(FILE *f,char *result_sum);"
.B "int slapt_ask_yes_no(const char *format, ...);"
.B "char *slapt_str_replace_chr(const char *string,const char find,"
.B "                            const char replace);"
.B "__inline void *slapt_malloc(size_t s);"
.B "__inline void *slapt_calloc(size_t n,size_t s);"
.fi
.sp
.nf
  typedef enum {
    SLAPT_OK = 0,
    SLAPT_MD5_CHECKSUM_MISMATCH,
    SLAPT_MD5_CHECKSUM_MISSING,
    #ifdef SLAPT_HAS_GPGME
    SLAPT_GPG_KEY_IMPORTED,
    SLAPT_GPG_KEY_NOT_IMPORTED,
    SLAPT_GPG_KEY_UNCHANGED,
    SLAPT_CHECKSUMS_VERIFIED,
    SLAPT_CHECKSUMS_MISSING_KEY,
    SLAPT_CHECKSUMS_NOT_VERIFIED,
    #endif
    SLAPT_DOWNLOAD_INCOMPLETE
  } slapt_code_t;
.sp
.B "const char *slapt_strerror(slapt_code_t code);"
.sp
.nf
  typedef enum {
      SLAPT_PRIORITY_DEFAULT = 0,
      SLAPT_PRIORITY_DEFAULT_PATCH,
      SLAPT_PRIORITY_PREFERRED,
      SLAPT_PRIORITY_PREFERRED_PATCH,
      SLAPT_PRIORITY_OFFICIAL,
      SLAPT_PRIORITY_OFFICIAL_PATCH,
      SLAPT_PRIORITY_CUSTOM,
      SLAPT_PRIORITY_CUSTOM_PATCH
  } SLAPT_PRIORITY_T;
.sp
.B #define SLAPT_PRIORITY_DEFAULT_TOKEN "DEFAULT"
.B #define SLAPT_PRIORITY_PREFERRED_TOKEN "PREFERRED"
.B #define SLAPT_PRIORITY_OFFICIAL_TOKEN "OFFICIAL"
.B #define SLAPT_PRIORITY_CUSTOM_TOKEN "CUSTOM"
.sp
.B /* return human readable priority */
.B const char *slapt_priority_to_str(SLAPT_PRIORITY_T priority);
.sp
.B SLAPT_BOOL_T slapt_disk_space_check (const char *path,double space_needed);
.sp
  typedef struct {
    char **items;
    unsigned int count;
  } slapt_list_t;
.sp
.B /* general list management */
.B slapt_list_t *slapt_parse_delimited_list(char *line, char delim);
.B slapt_list_t *slapt_init_list(void);
.B void slapt_add_list_item(slapt_list_t *list,const char *item);
.B void slapt_remove_list_item(slapt_list_t *list,const char *item);
.B const char *slapt_search_list(slapt_list_t *list, const char *needle);
.B void slapt_free_list(slapt_list_t *list);
.fi
.sp
.SH LINKING WITH LIBSLAPT
You must link with -lslapt and with libcurl through the curl-config script.  For example: `curl-config --libs` -lslapt.  Optionally, gpgme may be linked into libslapt, which requires `gpgme-config --libs`.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR libcurl(3)
.BR zlib(3)
.SH AUTHOR
Jason Woodward <woodwardj@jaos.org>
